>> Brian Holt: So, let's turn it back up
to a hundred here so we can see some jenk.
And let's go fix this.
Let's make this like, not do that.
There's a couple of levels to this.
First thing is we're gonna import
memo at the top from react.
And then when you have this function here,
we're just gonna wrap
the whole thing here in memo.
So I map this function is now
passed into memo as a parameter.
This tells React is like, if my props
didn't change, do not re-render me.
>> Brian Holt: Right,
does that make sense?
As soon as my props change,
by all means, re-render me,
but leave me alone unless my props change.
Just cache this between
various different results.
We have render.
That's a function in theory not changing,
right, and
you have options,
which is an object full of theme and text.
So theoretically,
none of these are changing between
each re-renders of the clock, right?
So if we go look at this,
why is this still changing?
Look at this code right here.
I have object A, and I have object B.
Is object A AA equal to object B?
This is like dumb interview questions,
I hate them.
But actually, in this case,
it's important.
No, right?
Let me just open this.
If you want me to prove my point.
x equals blah, y equals blah.
Both empty objects, is this true?
No, cuz they're actually
different objects, right?
They point to two
different things in memory.
Despite the fact that they're
functionally equivalent,
they're not literally the same object,
and that's what this question is, right?
So if we look at our code here,
obviously I did this intentionally.
In between renders this object is
getting created a new every single time.
So is the old version of this object
equal to the new version of this object?
No, right?
So that's what's happening
here with options.
So let's go ahead and fix that one first.
We're gonna use something called useMemo.
And then all we're gonna do here
is just say useMemo, right?
useMemo, and then just like the effects
here, we have to give it like, hey,
this has changed when this has happened.
You just give it an array of, hey, this
actually does change when either text or
theme is different, that's when it'll know
to invalidate its cache of this, right?
>> Speaker 2: Which cache is that
the cache in the browser is it?
>> Brian Holt: The memo cache, right?
It's like a React memo cache.
It caches the same object between renders,
right?
So that options will be
triple equal to itself,
because it's gonna give it back,
literally the same options object.
So, yeah this will cache the same
options object between renders, and
it'll only invalidate that when
one of these two things changes.
That the previous version of this is
not equal to the next version of it.
>> Speaker 2: I didn't know
there was a React cache, though.
>> Brian Holt: I don't even know if it's
called that, that's just what it is.
It's effectively doing.
Now, probably to no one's surprise,
that's broken.
Yeah.
This is a function, sorry,
not a direct object.
So you need to make this a function
that returns an object, text and
theme cuz that's how it worked.
That fix it?
Yeah, that fixed it.
Sorry, had the API there.
This is a function, it returns
an object with text and theme in it.
So, still rerendering, why?
FunctionA equals function blah,
functionB equals function blah,
are these two things equivalent?
No, for
the exact same reasons they're not.
So, there's also something
called usecallback that deals
specifically with functions.
Usecallback and
kinda the same thing here.
Usecallback.
>> Brian Holt: And
when will this not be valid?
Never, it's actually always the same
function, so you just give it an empty
array saying this is always gonna
be the same render function,
this will never change.
And now, if I go over here,
this has stopped rendering
because of memo, right?
Now, you can see this is now updated only
when this these things have changed.
This is still janky this.
I mean, it is right cuz it still has
that expensive render in it, but
this is not gonna cause other parts
of our code base to be janky.
Yeah, you're kind of like
containing the the blast zone for
janky pieces of your code,
because we all got them.
We all got janky pieces of code,
this was always kinda funny.
I had a claw generate me this
random piece of markdown and
some of it was pretty funny.
My mental health plus
Javascript equals undefined.
Why should JavaScript
developers wear glasses?
Because they don't see sharp.
[LAUGH] Thanks, dad.
Try to watch friend masters, feel
confident, attempt to use new knowledge,
panic.
[LAUGH] Is that the life
cycle of your customer?
That sounds about right.
Maybe I should become a farmer instead,
I do feel that.